Veeraj Jethalal

        5/4/17

Goal: Today, since my partner is absent, I will research the required front
end elements of a chatroom.

Accomplished: At the end of class today, I figured out that I will need to revisit
CSS and HTML over the next few days or weeks, or however long it takes
for me to understand it to a point where I can infuse it with AJAX, PHP,
SQL, JavaScript and possibly Java. For tomorrow, I will work on the basics
of CSS and try to rebuild the foundation that I need to succeed on this 
project.


        5/5/17 

Goal: Today, my group will need to redefine the project specifications
because Mr. Nockles said that the current project will be too easy.

Accomplished: We decided that we will work solely on Java instead of using
multiple languages. We will add voice interface to the chatroom to ad
complexity and implement it on Vaadin as well. For the weekend, we
all are going to watch a set of videos on YouTube
(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pr02nyPqLBU) to understand how the
chatroom works. On Monday, we will divide the roles after having a 
better understanding. We will also need to research how create a server
host and how to have voice in Java.

        5/8/17
        
Goal: Today, I will do research on how to add voice in Java.

Accomplished: I learned that there is a Java Voice Recognition API which
can be implemented into our code to enable voice chat in addition to 
an ordinary chat room. We also found an example of how to implement
this API. I will not be in class tomorrow because of my Calculus BC AP
Exam, and I will not be in class on 5/10/17 because of my Economics AP 
Exam. I will coordinate with my group and try to do my part at home, but 
for today, I need to finish watching the videos from the weekend.

        5/11/17
        
Goal: Today, I will explore Vaadin and think of ways I can improve the basic
chatbot as well as finishing the playlist of videos.

Accomplished: We concluded that we will not be using Vaadin anymore. I also
finished watching the videos and gained a better understanding of my role and
what the final product should look like. Tomorrow, I will think of ways
to make the chatbot a program that does more than just instant messaging.

        5/12/17
        
Goal: Today, I will look for ways in which I can add onto the chatroom.

Accomplished: I thought I would be able to add video chatting, but I realized
that will not be possible. I decided to stick with designing the front end
and allowing the user the customize the color, size and type of their message.
I will also try to implement small things, such as allowing the user to
see when the other user is typing or when the user saw the message, like on
Facebook.

       5/15/17
       
Goal: Today, I will look for ways in which I can implement "user is typing" 
into the program.

Accomplished: I found a way that I can do this using key listeners, but
I am not quite sure as to where I am supposed to put the code. The 
implementation looks pretty simple on JavaScript, but I don't know
how to translate that into Java. Also, I made the text areas uneditable 
because before, the user could just erase the messages. Now that the 
basic GUI is complete and working, I will find ways to make it aesthetically 
pleasing.

        5/16/17
        
Goal: After talking to my group, I changed my role once again to designing
a login system where the user is required to enter a username and password,
which gets saved, to maybe a database, but I will decide that later.

Accomplished: I created the beginning of the login class. I created the
initial window with text areas and all the necessary fields. I'll work
towards it completion in the coming days until it is finished.

        5/23/17
        
Goal: I am having trouble linking my login GUI to the actual chat program,
so I will work on fixing that.
  
Accomplished: I was unable to reach my goal, even after I looked online
and talking to my other group members. I'll try to find a solution at home
tonight and if I can't, then I will ask Mr. Nockles in class tomorrow.

        5/24/17
        
 Goal: I have the same goal from yesterday.
 
 Accomplished: I still could not solve the problem. I looked through
 the client class and found the place where the problem occurs,
 but I can't find the issue. The problem is when I click login and
 the username/password are correct, the client will run but it will
 only be a blank window. However, if I run the client without the
 login GUI, then it works fine. I will ask Mr. Nockles tomorrow.
 
        5/25/17
        
Goal: I am going to ask Mr. Nockles about fixing my error.

Accomplished: Mr. Nockles helped me with fixing the issue. The problem
was that the code was running in an infinite loop, which it never
exited and the solution was to create a separate thread in the login
class. I am pretty much done with the login code, for tomorrow I will
find ways to make it more efficient and help my team members with 
their roles and any problems that they may have.

       5/30/17
       
Goal: Since I am finished with my part, I will help my partners with 
theirs.

Accomplished: Today, I helped Gabriel with his problem. He was unable
to import fonts into Java, so I helped him find a solution to that and
although it still doesn't work, he made some progress.

       5/31/17
       
Goal: I will help Gabriel finish his emoji implementation.

Accomplished: We got the chat window to display an empty box
in place of the emoji, which means that the only thing left to do
is to use a font that is compatible with emojis. There is also one
small bug that we need to fix. I also started the PowerPoint for
the symposium and finished the basic layout.